Commissioner Of Income Tax, A.P, Hyderabad vs. Coromandal Cements Ltd..
Supreme Court Of India

Firstly he held, computing income under specified heads is not only proper; it is also obligatory on the part of the Revenue to do so. Income cannot be charged under a wrong head merely because the assessee returned it under a wrong head. Computation of income under each head is to be done independently and separately. Interest income on investment of surplus funds is to be taxed under the head " Income from other sources". For the above proposition, Assessing Officer relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in the case of Murli Investment Company v. Commissioner Of Income -Tax [1987] 167 ITR 368 (Raj.) . Assessing Officer also relied upon the decision of the jurisdictional High Court in the case of Godavari Sugur Mills Ltd. v. CIT [1991] 191 ITR 359 (Bom.) , wherein the Hon'ble High Court held that interest received on loans and advances where there is no evidence that the loans or advances were compulsion in the course of assessee's business, income arising from such advances is to be treated under the head " Income from other source ". Further, interest received by the assessee from bank deposit or short-term deposit is to be assessed under the head " Income from other source ". For the above proposition, he relied upon various decisions in the cases of Commissioner Of Income -Tax v. Derco Cooling Coils Ltd. [1992] 198 ITR 375 (AP) ; United Liner Agencies of India (P.) Ltd. v. CIT [1993] 201 ITR 704 (Cal.) and CIT v. Bihar Alloys Steels Ltd. [1994] 206 ITR 350 (Pat.) , etc. He held, finally the issue has been settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in detail in the case of Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. (supra). Though the decision was regarding interest income prior to commencement of its business, but the ratio of the judgment clarified and settled down the controversy. Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled that interest derived by the assessee from investment in short-term deposits with bank would be chargeable under the head " Income from other source ". Assessing Officer also relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Coromandol Cements Ltd. [1998] 234 ITR 412 (SC) , wherein it is held that interest would not go to reduce the interest payable by netting out of interest by the assessee on the term loans secured by the assessee from financial institution for the purpose of business.In the light of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. (supra). Assessing Officer held if the fund of the assessee company is fruitfully utilized instead of being kept idle, the income thus generated will be of revenue nature and chargeable to tax under section 56 of the Income -tax Act, 1961. He also placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in the case of CIT v. Rajasthan Land Development Corpn. [1995] 211 ITR 597 (Raj.) , which laid the principles regarding taxability of interest under specified head. On the basis of the discussion contained at pp. 13 to 21, Assessing Officer treated the income under the head " Income from other source ". Aggrieved by the above order, assessee approached the first appellate authority.

Cited in: Income-tax Officer  vs.  Godrej Soaps Ltd.
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal