Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd., Madras vs. Commissioner Of Income Tax, Madras .
Supreme Court Of India

6. Per contra, Shri Daksh Pareek, learned counsel for the respondent-revenue has submitted that since the interest income on the FDR is not part of contract receipt, the same is liable to be taxed under the head '''' income from other source ''''. The Tribunal was perfectly justified in treating such interest income earned on FDR/NSC as income from other source . Learned counsel submitted that this issue is squarely covered by judgement of this Court in M/s. Bhawal Synthetics (India), Udaipur, supra, in which assessee had income of interest through FDRs. Assessee claimed deduction or set off of his income from other sources against interest payable on the borrowed fund. The reason given was that the amount pertaining to FDR was not surplus amount but part of amount that was kept to obtain letter of credit for purchase of machinery. It was held by this Court that interest earned thereupon was nothing but income from other source and therefore the Commissioner of Income Tax rightly treated the same as taxable income . Learned counsel for the respondent has also relied on judgement of the Supreme Court in M/s. Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. va. Commissioner of Incometax-1997 (6) SCC 117. "In the present case, the assessee had deposited money to open a letter of credit for the purchase of the machinery required for setting up its plant in terms of the assessee''''s agreement with the supplier. It was on the money so deposited that some interest has been earned. This is, therefore, not a case where any surplus share capital money which is lying idle has been deposited in the bank for the purpose of earning interest. The deposit of money in the present case is directly linked with the purchase of plant and machinery. Hence, any income earned on such deposit is incidental to the acquisition of assets for the setting up of the plant and machinery. In this view of the matter the ratio laid down by this court in Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited vs. Commissioner of Income Tax- (1997) 227 ITR 172 , will not be attracted. The more appropriate decision in the factual situation in the present case is in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Bokaro Steel Ltd.-(1999) 236 ITR 315 (SC). The appeal is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs."

Cited in: M/S. Choudhary And Brothers  vs.  Deputy Commissioner Of Income Tax 
Rajasthan High Court